---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "opnsense_bind_primary_domain Data Source - terraform-provider-opnsense"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Primary Domains are named lists of networks that can be used to configure who can access which resources in Bind.
---

# opnsense_bind_primary_domain (Data Source)

Primary Domains are named lists of networks that can be used to configure who can access which resources in Bind.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) UUID of the resource.

### Read-Only

- `allow_query` (Set of String) The list of ACLs to allow queries from.
- `allow_transfer` (Set of String) The list of ACLs to allow transfer to.
- `dns_server` (String) The DNS server to use.
- `domain_name` (String) The domain name.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable this Primary Domain.
- `expire` (Number) Maximum time a name server will still consider itself Authoritative if it hasn't been able to refresh the zone data. Time in seconds.
- `mail_admin` (String) The mail admin email address. '@' must be replaced by '.'.
- `negative` (Number) Controls negative caching time, which is how long a resolver will cache a NXDOMAIN Name Error. Time in seconds.
- `refresh` (Number) How often a name server should check it's primary server to see if there have been any updates to the zone. This is done by comparing the (auto-generated) serial numbers. Time in seconds.
- `retry` (Number) How long a name server should wait to retry an attempt to get fresh zone data from the primary name server if the first attempt failed. Time in seconds.
- `ttl` (Number) Time to live for the entry (the time it may be cached). Time in seconds.
