---
page_title: "opnsense_firewall_nat_one_to_one Data Source - terraform-provider-opnsense"
subcategory: Firewall
description: |-
  1:1 NAT maps a public IP or subnet to an internal private IP or subnet. All traffic to the public address is forwarded to the internal host or network. Unlike port forwarding, it exposes the full internal system, useful for servers behind a firewall. BINAT rules enable bidirectional translation for consistent incoming and outgoing connections.
---

# opnsense_firewall_nat_one_to_one (Data Source)

1:1 NAT maps a public IP or subnet to an internal private IP or subnet. All traffic to the public address is forwarded to the internal host or network. Unlike port forwarding, it exposes the full internal system, useful for servers behind a firewall. BINAT rules enable bidirectional translation for consistent incoming and outgoing connections.

~> This resource requires the `os-firewall` plugin to be installed. It will *not* behave correctly if it is not installed.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) UUID of the resource.

### Read-Only

- `categories` (Set of String) Set of category IDs to apply.
- `description` (String) Optional description here for your reference (not parsed).
- `destination` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--destination))
- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable this firewall NAT rule.
- `external_net` (String) Enter the external subnet's starting address for the 1:1 mapping or network. This is the address or network the traffic will translate to/from.
- `interface` (String) Choose which interface this rule applies to.
- `log` (Boolean) Log packets that are handled by this rule.
- `nat_reflection` (String) NAT reflection mode. One of `default`, `enable`, or `disable`. `default` means OPNsense uses the global firewall NAT reflection setting.
- `sequence` (Number) Specify the order of this NAT rule.
- `source` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source))
- `type` (String) Select `binat` (default) or `nat` here, when nets are equally sized `binat` is usually the best option. Using `nat` we can also map unequal sized networks. A `binat` rule specifies a bidirectional mapping between an external and internal network and can be used from both ends, `nat` only applies in one direction.

<a id="nestedatt--destination"></a>
### Nested Schema for `destination`

Read-Only:

- `invert` (Boolean) Use this option to invert the sense of the match.
- `net` (String) The 1:1 mapping will only be used for connections to or from the specified destination.


<a id="nestedatt--source"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source`

Read-Only:

- `invert` (Boolean) Use this option to invert the sense of the match.
- `net` (String) Enter the internal IP address, CIDR or alias for the 1:1 mapping.

