---
page_title: "opnsense_firewall_nat Data Source - terraform-provider-opnsense"
subcategory: Firewall
description: |-
  Network Address Translation (abbreviated to NAT) is a way to separate external and internal networks (WANs and LANs), and to share an external IP between clients on the internal network.
---

# opnsense_firewall_nat (Data Source)

Network Address Translation (abbreviated to NAT) is a way to separate external and internal networks (WANs and LANs), and to share an external IP between clients on the internal network.

~> This resource requires the `os-firewall` plugin to be installed. It will *not* behave correctly if it is not installed.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) UUID of the resource.

### Read-Only

- `description` (String) Optional description here for your reference (not parsed).
- `destination` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--destination))
- `disable_nat` (Boolean) Enabling this option will disable NAT for traffic matching this rule and stop processing Outbound NAT rules.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable this firewall NAT rule.
- `interface` (String) The interface on which packets must come in to match this rule.
- `ip_protocol` (String) Select the Internet Protocol version this rule applies to. Available values: `inet`, `inet6`.
- `log` (Boolean) Log packets that are handled by this rule.
- `protocol` (String) Choose which IP protocol this rule should match.
- `sequence` (Number) Specify the order of this NAT rule.
- `source` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source))
- `target` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--target))

<a id="nestedatt--destination"></a>
### Nested Schema for `destination`

Read-Only:

- `invert` (Boolean) Use this option to invert the sense of the match.
- `net` (String) Specify the IP address, CIDR or alias for the destination of the packet for this mapping.
- `port` (Number) Specify the port for the destination of the packet for this mapping.


<a id="nestedatt--source"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source`

Read-Only:

- `invert` (Boolean) Use this option to invert the sense of the match.
- `net` (String) Specify the IP address, CIDR or alias for the source of the packet for this mapping.
- `port` (Number) Specify the source port for this rule. This is usually random and almost never equal to the destination port range (and should usually be `-1`).


<a id="nestedatt--target"></a>
### Nested Schema for `target`

Read-Only:

- `ip` (String) Specify the IP address or alias for the packets to be mapped to.
- `port` (Number) Destination port number or well known name (imap, imaps, http, https, ...), for ranges use a dash.

