---
page_title: "opnsense_firewall_nat_port_forward Data Source - terraform-provider-opnsense"
subcategory: Firewall
description: |-
  Destination NAT (port forwarding) redirects traffic arriving on an external interface to an internal host. Use this to expose internal services (e.g. web servers, SSH) to the outside network.
---

# opnsense_firewall_nat_port_forward (Data Source)

Destination NAT (port forwarding) redirects traffic arriving on an external interface to an internal host. Use this to expose internal services (e.g. web servers, SSH) to the outside network.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) UUID of the resource.

### Read-Only

- `description` (String) Optional description for reference.
- `destination` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--destination))
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether this port forwarding rule is enabled.
- `interface` (String) The interface on which packets must come in to match this rule.
- `ip_protocol` (String) The Internet Protocol version this rule applies to. Available values: `inet`, `inet6`.
- `log` (Boolean) Whether packets handled by this rule are logged.
- `nat_reflection` (String) NAT reflection mode. One of `default`, `enable`, or `disable`.
- `protocol` (String) The IP protocol this rule matches.
- `sequence` (Number) The order of this port forwarding rule.
- `source` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--source))
- `target` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--target))

<a id="nestedatt--destination"></a>
### Nested Schema for `destination`

Read-Only:

- `invert` (Boolean) Whether the sense of the match is inverted.
- `net` (String) The IP address, CIDR or alias for the destination of the packet.
- `port` (String) The port for the destination of the packet.


<a id="nestedatt--source"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source`

Read-Only:

- `invert` (Boolean) Whether the sense of the match is inverted.
- `net` (String) The IP address, CIDR or alias for the source of the packet.
- `port` (String) The source port for this rule.


<a id="nestedatt--target"></a>
### Nested Schema for `target`

Read-Only:

- `ip` (String) The internal IP address or alias packets are forwarded to.
- `port` (String) The internal port number or well known name packets are forwarded to.


