---
page_title: "opnsense_firewall_alias Data Source - terraform-provider-opnsense"
subcategory: Firewall
description: |-
  Aliases are named lists of networks, hosts or ports that can be used as one entity by selecting the alias name in the various supported sections of the firewall. These aliases are particularly useful to condense firewall rules and minimize changes.
---

# opnsense_firewall_alias (Data Source)

Aliases are named lists of networks, hosts or ports that can be used as one entity by selecting the alias name in the various supported sections of the firewall. These aliases are particularly useful to condense firewall rules and minimize changes.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) UUID of the resource.

### Read-Only

- `categories` (Set of String) Set of category IDs to apply.
- `content` (Set of String) The content of the alias. Enter ISO 3166-1 country codes when `type = "geoip"` (e.g. `["CA", "FR"]`). Enter `__<int>_network`, or alias when `type = "networkgroup"` (e.g. `["__wan_network", "otheralias"]`). Enter OpenVPN group when `type = "authgroup"` (e.g. `["admins"]`). Set to `[]` when `type = "external"`.
- `description` (String) Optional description here for your reference (not parsed).
- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable this firewall alias.
- `interface` (String) Choose on which interface this alias applies. Only applies (and must be set) when `type = "dynipv6host"`.
- `ip_protocol` (Set of String) Select the Internet Protocol version this alias applies to. Available values: `IPv4`, `IPv6`. Only applies when `type = "asn"`, `type = "geoip"`, or `type = "external"`.
- `name` (String) The name must start with a letter or single underscore, be less than 32 characters and only consist of alphanumeric characters or underscores. Aliases can be nested using this name.
- `stats` (Boolean) Whether to maintain a set of counters for each table entry.
- `type` (String) The type of alias.
- `update_freq` (Number) The frequency that the list will be refreshed, in days (e.g. for 30 hours, enter `1.25`). Only applies (and must be set) when `type = "urltable"`.

