---
page_title: "opnsense_interfaces_overview_all Data Source - terraform-provider-opnsense"
subcategory: Interfaces
description: |-
  Interfaces Overview All provides live state for all OPNsense interfaces, including IP addresses, CARP status, VLAN, and LAGG information.
---

# opnsense_interfaces_overview_all (Data Source)

Interfaces Overview All provides live state for all OPNsense interfaces, including IP addresses, CARP status, VLAN, and LAGG information.

## Example Usage

```terraform
// Get all interfaces
data "opnsense_interfaces_overview_all" "all" {}

// Filter for only enabled interfaces
output "enabled_interfaces" {
  value = [for i in data.opnsense_interfaces_overview_all.all.interfaces : i if i.enabled]
}

// Get the primary IPv4 address of each interface that has one
output "interface_ipv4_map" {
  value = { for i in data.opnsense_interfaces_overview_all.all.interfaces : i.identifier => i.addr4 if i.addr4 != "" }
}

// Filter for VLAN interfaces
output "vlan_interfaces" {
  value = [for i in data.opnsense_interfaces_overview_all.all.interfaces : i if i.vlan.tag != ""]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Read-Only

- `interfaces` (Attributes List) A list of all interfaces present in OPNsense. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces))

<a id="nestedatt--interfaces"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces`

Required:

- `device` (String) Kernel device name of the interface (e.g. `"vtnet0"`).

Read-Only:

- `addr4` (String) Primary IPv4 address of the interface.
- `addr6` (String) Primary IPv6 address of the interface.
- `capabilities` (Set of String) Interface capabilities.
- `description` (String) User-facing interface description.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether the interface is enabled.
- `flags` (Set of String) Interface flags.
- `gateways` (Set of String) Gateways associated with the interface.
- `groups` (Set of String) Interface groups.
- `identifier` (String) OPNsense logical interface identifier (e.g. `"wan"`, `"lan"`).
- `ifctl_nameserver` (Set of String) Name servers assigned to the interface via ifctl.
- `ifctl_prefix` (Set of String) Prefixes assigned to the interface via ifctl.
- `ifctl_router` (Set of String) Routers assigned to the interface via ifctl.
- `ifctl_searchdomain` (Set of String) Search domains assigned to the interface via ifctl.
- `ipv4` (Attributes List) IPv4 addresses assigned to the interface, including CARP virtual IPs. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces--ipv4))
- `ipv6` (Attributes List) IPv6 addresses assigned to the interface, including CARP virtual IPs. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces--ipv6))
- `is_physical` (Boolean) Whether the interface is a physical interface.
- `lagg_hash` (String) LAGG hash configuration.
- `lagg_options` (String) LAGG options.
- `lagg_proto` (String) LAGG aggregation protocol (e.g. `"lacp"`).
- `link_type` (String) Link type of the interface (e.g. `"ether"`, `"dhcp"`).
- `macaddr` (String) Current MAC address of the interface.
- `macaddr_hw` (String) Hardware MAC address of the interface.
- `media` (String) Interface media type settings.
- `media_raw` (String) User-friendly interface media type.
- `mtu` (String) Maximum Transmission Unit of the interface.
- `nd6_flags` (Set of String) ND6 flags of the interface.
- `options` (Set of String) Interface options.
- `routes` (Set of String) Routes associated with the interface.
- `status` (String) Link status of the interface (e.g. `"active"`).
- `supported_media` (Set of String) Supported media types.
- `vlan` (Attributes) VLAN configuration of the interface. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces--vlan))
- `vlan_tag` (String) VLAN tag of the interface.

<a id="nestedatt--interfaces--ipv4"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces.ipv4`

Read-Only:

- `adv_base` (String) CARP advertisement base.
- `adv_skew` (String) CARP advertisement skew.
- `carp_status` (String) CARP status (e.g. `"MASTER"`, `"BACKUP"`).
- `ipaddr` (String) IPv4 address.
- `peer` (String) CARP peer address.
- `peer6` (String) CARP peer IPv6 address.
- `vhid` (String) CARP virtual host ID.


<a id="nestedatt--interfaces--ipv6"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces.ipv6`

Read-Only:

- `adv_base` (String) CARP advertisement base.
- `adv_skew` (String) CARP advertisement skew.
- `carp_status` (String) CARP status (e.g. `"MASTER"`, `"BACKUP"`).
- `ipaddr` (String) IPv6 address.
- `peer` (String) CARP peer address.
- `peer6` (String) CARP peer IPv6 address.
- `vhid` (String) CARP virtual host ID.


<a id="nestedatt--interfaces--vlan"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces.vlan`

Read-Only:

- `parent` (String) Parent interface of the VLAN.
- `pcp` (String) VLAN priority code point.
- `proto` (String) VLAN protocol.
- `tag` (String) VLAN tag.
