---
page_title: "opnsense_interface_all Data Source - terraform-provider-opnsense"
subcategory: Interfaces
description: |-
  InterfacesAll can be used to get a list of all configurations of OPNsense interfaces. Allows for custom filtering.
---

# opnsense_interface_all (Data Source)

InterfacesAll can be used to get a list of all configurations of OPNsense interfaces. Allows for custom filtering.

## Example Usage

```terraform
// Get all interface configs
data "opnsense_interface_all" "all" {}

// Filter for a specific MAC address
output "specific_mac" {
  value = [for i in data.opnsense_interface_all.all.interfaces : i if i.macaddr == "5a:dc:1f:24:12:c6"]
}

// Filter for specific device (advisable to use opnsense_interface instead)
 output "wireguard" {
   value = [for i in data.opnsense_interface_all.all.interfaces : i if i.device == "wg1"]
 }
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Read-Only

- `interfaces` (Attributes List) A list of all interfaces present in OPNsense. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces))

<a id="nestedatt--interfaces"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces`

Required:

- `device` (String) Name of the interface device.

Read-Only:

- `capabilities` (Set of String) List of capabilities the interface supports.
- `flags` (Set of String) List of flags configured on the interface (equiv. to flags=xxxx in output of ifconfig).
- `groups` (Set of String) List of groups the interface is a member of.
- `ipv4` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces--ipv4))
- `ipv6` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces--ipv6))
- `is_physical` (Boolean) Whether the interface is physical or virtual.
- `macaddr` (String) MAC address assigned to the interface.
- `media` (String) Interface media type settings (see https://man.openbsd.org/ifmedia.4).
- `media_raw` (String) User-friendly interface media type.
- `mtu` (Number) Maximum Transmission Unit for the interface. This is typically 1500 bytes but can vary in some circumstances.
- `options` (Set of String) List of options configured on the interface (equiv. to options=xx in output of ifconfig).
- `status` (String) Status of the interface (e.g. `"active"`).
- `supported_media` (Set of String) List of supported media type settings (see https://man.openbsd.org/ifmedia.4).

<a id="nestedatt--interfaces--ipv4"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces.ipv4`

Read-Only:

- `ipaddr` (String) IPv4 address assigned to the interface.
- `subnetbits` (Number) Number of subnet bits (i.e. CIDR).
- `tunnel` (Boolean) Whether IPv4 tunnelling is enabled.


<a id="nestedatt--interfaces--ipv6"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces.ipv6`

Read-Only:

- `autoconf` (Boolean) Whether auto-configuration is enabled for the address.
- `deprecated` (Boolean) Whether the address is deprecated.
- `ipaddr` (String) IPv6 address assigned to the interface.
- `link_local` (Boolean) Whether the address is link-local.
- `subnetbits` (Number) Number of subnet bits (i.e. CIDR).
- `tentative` (Boolean) Whether the address is tentative.
- `tunnel` (Boolean) Whether IPv6 tunnelling is enabled.

