---
page_title: "opnsense_kea_subnet Data Source - terraform-provider-opnsense"
subcategory: Kea
description: |-
  Configure DHCP subnets for Kea.
---

# opnsense_kea_subnet (Data Source)

Configure DHCP subnets for Kea.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) UUID of the resource.

### Optional

- `domain_name` (String) Domain name to offer to the client, set to this firewall's domain name when left empty.

### Read-Only

- `auto_collect` (Boolean) Automatically update option data from the GUI for relevant attributes. When set, values for `routers`, `dns_servers` and `ntp_servers` will be ignored.
- `description` (String) Optional description here for your reference (not parsed).
- `dns_servers` (Set of String) DNS servers to offer to the clients.
- `domain_search` (Set of String) Set of Domain Names to be used by the client to locate not-fully-qualified domain names.
- `match_client_id` (Boolean) By default, KEA uses client-identifiers instead of MAC addresses to locate clients, disabling this option changes back to matching on MAC address which is used by most dhcp implementations. Defaults to `true`.
- `next_server` (String) Next server IP address.
- `ntp_servers` (Set of String) Set of IP addresses indicating NTP (RFC 5905) servers available to the client.
- `pools` (Set of String) Set of pools in range or subnet format (e.g. `"192.168.0.100 - 192.168.0.200"` , `"192.0.2.64/26"`).
- `routers` (Set of String) Default gateways to offer to the clients.
- `static_routes` (Attributes Set) Static routes that the client should install in its routing cache. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--static_routes))
- `subnet` (String) Subnet in use (e.g. `"192.0.2.64/26"`).
- `tfpt_server` (String) TFTP server address or fqdn.
- `tftp_bootfile` (String) Boot filename to request.
- `time_servers` (Set of String) Set of RFC 868 time servers available to the client.

<a id="nestedatt--static_routes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `static_routes`

Read-Only:

- `destination_ip` (String) Destination IP address for static route.
- `router_ip` (String) Gateway IP for static route.

