---
page_title: "opnsense_quagga_bgp_neighbor Data Source - terraform-provider-opnsense"
subcategory: Quagga
description: |-
  Configure neighbors for BGP.
---

# opnsense_quagga_bgp_neighbor (Data Source)

Configure neighbors for BGP.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) UUID of the resource.

### Read-Only

- `as_override` (Boolean) Override AS number of the originating router with the local AS number. This command is only allowed for eBGP peers.
- `attribute_unchanged` (String) Specify attribute to be left unchanged when sending advertisements to a peer. Read more at FRR documentation.
- `bfd` (Boolean) Enable BFD support for this neighbor.
- `connect_timer` (Number) The time in seconds how fast a neighbor tries to reconnect.
- `default_route` (Boolean) Enable to send Defaultroute.
- `description` (String) An optional description for this neighbor.
- `disable_connected_check` (Boolean) Enable to allow peerings between directly connected eBGP peers using loopback addresses.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable this neighbor.
- `hold_down` (Number) The time in seconds when a neighbor is considered dead. This is usually 3 times the keepalive timer.
- `keep_alive` (Number) Enable Keepalive timer to check if the neighbor is still up.
- `link_local_interface` (String) Interface to use for IPv6 link-local neighbours. Must be a valid OPNsense interface in lowercase (e.g. `wan`). Please refer to the FRR documentation for more information.
- `local_ip` (String) The local IP connecting to the neighbor. This is only required for BGP authentication.
- `md5_password` (String) The password for BGP authentication.
- `multi_hop` (Boolean) Enable multi-hop. Specifying ebgp-multihop allows sessions with eBGP neighbors to establish when they are multiple hops away. When the neighbor is not directly connected and this knob is not enabled, the session will not establish.
- `multi_protocol` (Boolean) Mark this neighbor as multiprotocol capable per RFC 2283.
- `next_hop_self` (Boolean) Enable the next-hop-self command.
- `next_hop_self_all` (Boolean) Add the parameter "all" after next-hop-self command.
- `peer_ip` (String) The IP of your neighbor.
- `prefix_list_in` (String) The prefix list ID for inbound direction.
- `prefix_list_out` (String) The prefix list ID for outbound direction.
- `remote_as` (Number) The neighbor AS.
- `route_map_in` (String) The route map ID for inbound direction.
- `route_map_out` (String) The route map ID for outbound direction.
- `rr_client` (Boolean) Enable route reflector client.
- `update_source` (String) Physical name of the IPv4 interface facing the peer. Must be a valid OPNsense interface in lowercase (e.g. `wan`). Please refer to the FRR documentation for more information.
- `weight` (Number) Specify a default weight value for the neighbor’s routes.

