---
page_title: "opnsense_unbound_settings Data Source - terraform-provider-opnsense"
subcategory: Unbound
description: |-
  Reads Unbound DNS resolver settings from the upstream system.
---

# opnsense_unbound_settings (Data Source)

Reads Unbound DNS resolver settings from the upstream system.

## Example Usage

```terraform
// Read the current Unbound DNS resolver settings from OPNsense.
data "opnsense_unbound_settings" "settings" {}

output "unbound_enabled" {
  value = data.opnsense_unbound_settings.settings.general.enabled
}

output "unbound_port" {
  value = data.opnsense_unbound_settings.settings.general.port
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Read-Only

- `acls` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--acls))
- `advanced` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--advanced))
- `dnsbl` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dnsbl))
- `forwarding` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--forwarding))
- `general` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--general))
- `id` (String) Always set to `singleton`.

<a id="nestedatt--acls"></a>
### Nested Schema for `acls`

Read-Only:

- `default_action` (String) By default, Unbound will allow queries from all networks. Use this setting to change this behaviour. Since the most specific net block is used, the ACLs as defined in the grid below have preference and will therefore override the behaviour of this setting for the specified networks.


<a id="nestedatt--advanced"></a>
### Nested Schema for `advanced`

Read-Only:

- `aggressive_nsec` (Boolean) Whether to enable RFC8198-based aggressive use of the DNSSEC-Validated cache. Helps to reduce the query rate towards targets but may lead to false negative responses if there are errors in the zone config.
- `cache` (Attributes) Cache configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--advanced--cache))
- `discard_timeout` (Number) The wait time in msec where recursion requests are dropped. This is to stop a large number of replies from accumulating. If 'Serve Expired Responses' is enabled this field should be set greater than 'Client Expired Response Timeout', otherwise, these late responses will not update the cache. The value 0 disables it. Default 1900. This setting may increase the "request queue exceeded" counter.
- `dnssec_stripped` (Boolean) DNSSEC data is required for trust-anchored zones. If such data is absent, the zone becomes bogus. If this is disabled and no DNSSEC data is received, then the zone is made insecure.
- `enable_prefetch_key` (Boolean) When enabled, DNSKEYs are fetched earlier in the validation process when a Delegation signer is encountered. This helps lower the latency of requests but does utilize a little more CPU.
- `hide_identity` (Boolean) When enabled, id.server and hostname.bind queries are refused.
- `hide_version` (Boolean) When enabled, version.server and version.bind queries are refused.
- `incoming_num_tcp` (Number) The number of incoming TCP buffers to allocate per thread. If 0 is selected then no TCP queries, from clients, are accepted.
- `insecure_domains` (Set of String) List of domains to mark as insecure. DNSSEC chain of trust is ignored towards the domain name.
- `jostle_timeout` (Number) This timeout is used for when the server is very busy. Set to a value that usually results in one round-trip to the authority servers. If too many queries arrive, then 50% of the queries are allowed to run to completion, and the other 50% are replaced with the new incoming query if they have already spent more than their allowed time. This protects against denial of service by slow queries or high query rates.
- `logging` (Attributes) Logging configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--advanced--logging))
- `num_queries_per_thread` (Number) The number of queries that every thread will service simultaneously. If more queries arrive that need to be serviced, and no queries can be jostled out (see "jostle_timeout"), then these queries are dropped. This forces the client to resend after a timeout, allowing the server time to work on the existing queries.
- `outgoing_num_tcp` (Number) The number of outgoing TCP buffers to allocate per thread. If 0 is selected then no TCP queries, to authoritative servers, are done.
- `outgoing_range` (Number) The number of ports to open. This number of file descriptors can be opened per thread. Larger numbers need extra resources from the operating system. For performance a very large value is best. For reference, usually double the amount of queries per thread is used.
- `private_addresses` (Set of String) These are addresses on your private network, and are not allowed to be returned for public internet names. Any occurrence of such addresses are removed from DNS answers. Additionally, the DNSSEC validator may mark the answers bogus. This protects against so-called DNS Rebinding (Only applicable when DNS rebind check is enabled in `System->Settings->Administration`).
- `private_domains` (Set of String) List of domains to mark as private. These domains and all its subdomains are allowed to contain private addresses.
- `qname_min_strict` (Boolean) Whether to send minimum amount of information to upstream servers to enhance privacy. Do not fall-back to sending full QNAME to potentially broken nameservers. A lot of domains will not be resolvable when this option in enabled. Only use if you know what you are doing.
- `serve_expired` (Attributes) Serve expired cache configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--advanced--serve_expired))

<a id="nestedatt--advanced--cache"></a>
### Nested Schema for `advanced.cache`

Read-Only:

- `enable_prefetch` (Boolean) Message cache elements are prefetched before they expire to help keep the cache up to date. When enabled, this option can cause an increase of around 10% more DNS traffic and load on the server, but frequently requested items will not expire from the cache.
- `host_ttl` (Number) Time to live in seconds for entries in the host cache. The host cache contains round-trip timing, lameness and EDNS support information.
- `keep_probing_hosts` (Boolean) Whether to keep probing hosts that are down in the infrastructure host cache. Hosts that are down are probed about every 120 seconds with an exponential backoff. If hosts do not respond within this time period, they are marked as down for the duration of the host cache TTL.
- `max_negative_ttl` (Number) Configure a maximum Negative Time to live in seconds for RRsets and messages in the cache. When the internal TTL expires the negative response cache item is expired. This can be configured to force the resolver to query for data more often in case you wont get a valid answer.
- `max_ttl` (Number) Configure a maximum Time to live in seconds for RRsets and messages in the cache. When the internal TTL expires the cache item is expired. This can be configured to force the resolver to query for data more often and not trust (very large) TTL values.
- `min_ttl` (Number) Configure a minimum Time to live in seconds for RRsets and messages in the cache. If the minimum value kicks in, the data is cached for longer than the domain owner intended, and thus fewer queries are made to look up the data. The 0 value ensures the data in the cache is as the domain owner intended. High values can lead to trouble as the data in the cache might not match up with the actual data anymore.
- `msg_cache_size` (String) Size of the message cache. The message cache stores DNS rcodes and validation statuses. Valid input is plain bytes, optionally appended with 'k', 'm', or 'g' for kilobytes, megabytes or gigabytes respectively.
- `num_hosts` (Number) Number of hosts for which information is cached.
- `rrset_cache_size` (String) Size of the RRset cache. Contains the actual RR data. Valid input is plain bytes, optionally appended with 'k', 'm', or 'g' for kilobytes, megabytes or gigabytes respectively.
- `unwanted_reply_threshold` (Number) When enabled, a total number of unwanted replies is kept track of in every thread. When it reaches the threshold, a defensive action is taken and a warning is printed to the log file. This defensive action is to clear the RRSet and message caches, hopefully flushing away any poison.


<a id="nestedatt--advanced--logging"></a>
### Nested Schema for `advanced.logging`

Read-Only:

- `extended_statistics` (Boolean) When enabled, extended statistics are printed.
- `log_local_actions` (Boolean) When enabled, log lines to inform about local zone actions. These lines are like the local-zone type inform prints out, but they are also printed for the other types of local zones.
- `log_queries` (Boolean) When enabled, prints one line per query to the log, with the log timestamp and IP address, name, type and class. Note that it takes time to print these lines, which makes the server (significantly) slower. Odd (non-printable) characters in names are printed as '?'.
- `log_replies` (Boolean) When enabled, prints one line per reply to the log, with the log timestamp and IP address, name, type, class, return code, time to resolve, whether the reply is from the cache and the response size. Note that it takes time to print these lines, which makes the server (significantly) slower. Odd (non-printable) characters in names are printed as '?'.
- `log_servfail` (Boolean) When enabled, log lines that say why queries return SERVFAIL to clients. This is separate from the verbosity debug logs, much smaller, and printed at the error level, not the info level of debug info from verbosity.
- `tag_query_reply` (Boolean) When enabled, prints the word 'query: ' and 'reply: ' with logged queries and replies. This makes filtering logs easier.
- `validation_level` (Number) Have the validator print validation failures to the log. Regardless of the verbosity setting. Default is 0, off. At 1, for every user query that fails a line is printed to the logs. This way you can monitor what happens with validation. Use a diagnosis tool, such as dig or drill, to find out why validation is failing for these queries. At 2, not only the query that failed is printed but also the reason why Unbound thought it was wrong and which server sent the faulty data.
- `verbosity_level` (Number) Select the log verbosity. Level 0 means no verbosity, only errors. Level 1 gives operational information. Level 2 gives detailed operational information. Level 3 gives query level information, output per query. Level 4 gives algorithm level information. Level 5 logs client identification for cache misses.


<a id="nestedatt--advanced--serve_expired"></a>
### Nested Schema for `advanced.serve_expired`

Read-Only:

- `client_response_timeout` (String) Time in milliseconds before replying to the client with expired data. This essentially enables the serve- stable behavior as specified in RFC 8767 that first tries to resolve before immediately responding with expired data. A recommended value per RFC 8767 is 1800. Setting this to 0 will disable this behavior.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Serve expired responses from the cache with a TTL of 0 without waiting for the actual resolution to finish. The TTL can be modified with "record_reply_ttl" value.
- `record_reply_ttl` (String) TTL value to use when replying with expired data. If "Client Expired Response Timeout" is also used then it is recommended to use 30 as the value as per RFC 8767.
- `reset_ttl` (Boolean) Whether to set the TTL of expired records to the "TTL for Expired Responses" value after a failed attempt to retrieve the record from an upstream server. This makes sure that the expired records will be served as long as there are queries for it.
- `ttl` (String) Limits the serving of expired responses to the configured amount of seconds after expiration. A value of 0 disables the limit. A suggested value per RFC 8767 is between 86400 (1 day) and 259200 (3 days).



<a id="nestedatt--dnsbl"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dnsbl`

Read-Only:

- `blocklist_domains` (Set of String) List of domains to blocklist. Only exact matches are supported.
- `blocklists` (Set of String) List of domains (URLs) from where blocklist will be downloaded.
- `destination_address` (String) Destination ip address for entries in the blocklist (leave as `""` to use default: `0.0.0.0`). Not used when "return_nxdomain" is set.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable the usage of DNS blocklists.
- `force_safe_search` (Boolean) Force the usage of SafeSearch on Google, DuckDuckGo, Bing, Qwant, PixaBay and YouTube.
- `return_nxdomain` (Boolean) Whether to use the DNS response code NXDOMAIN instead of a destination address.
- `type` (Set of String) Select which kind of DNSBL you want to use.
- `whitelist_domains` (Set of String) List of domains to whitelist. You can use regular expressions.
- `wildcard_domains` (Set of String) List of wildcard domains to blocklist. All subdomains of the given domain will be blocked. Blocking first-level domains is not supported.


<a id="nestedatt--forwarding"></a>
### Nested Schema for `forwarding`

Read-Only:

- `enabled` (Boolean) The configured system nameservers will be used to forward queries to. This will override any entry in the grid below, except for entries with a specific domain. DNS over TLS will never be used for any query bound for a system nameserver.


<a id="nestedatt--general"></a>
### Nested Schema for `general`

Read-Only:

- `dhcp_domain_override` (String) The default domain name to use for DHCP lease registration. If empty, the system domain is used.
- `dns64_prefix` (String)
- `enable_dns64` (Boolean) When set, Unbound will synthesize AAAA records from A records if no actual AAAA records are present.
- `enable_dnssec` (Boolean) Whether DNSSEC validation is enabled.
- `enable_reload_cache_flush` (Boolean) When set, the DNS cache is flushed every time the service is restarted.
- `enable_txt_support` (Boolean) When set, then DNS queries for TXT records will also be registered with the source address of the query.
- `enable_wpad` (Boolean) When set, Unbound will respond to queries for wpad.yourdomain.tld.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether Unbound DNS resolver is enabled.
- `listen_interfaces` (Set of String) Interface IP addresses used for responding to queries from clients. If an interface has both IPv4 and IPv6 IPs, both are used. Queries to other interface IPs not selected below are discarded. The default behavior is to respond to queries on every available IPv4 and IPv6 address.
- `local_zone_type` (String) The local zone type controls how the local zone is handled. By default unbound will be a 'transparent' forwarding server for the local zone. Other options like 'static' will make it directly authoritative for the local zone.
- `no_a_records` (Boolean) When set, Unbound will remove all A records from the answer section of all responses.
- `outgoing_interfaces` (Set of String) Interface IP addresses used for outgoing queries to authoritative servers and receiving their replies. If an interface has both IPv4 and IPv6 IPs, both are used. The default behavior is to use all available IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.
- `port` (Number) The TCP/UDP port used for responding to DNS queries.
- `register_dhcp_leases` (Boolean) When set, then machines that specify their hostname when requesting a DHCP lease will be registered in Unbound, so that their name can be resolved.
- `register_dhcp_static_mappings` (Boolean) When set, then DHCP static mappings will be registered in Unbound, so that their name can be resolved.
- `register_ipv6_link_local` (Boolean) When set, then IPv6 link-local addresses will also be registered.
- `register_systems_records` (Boolean) When set, then entries configured under System: Settings: General will be added to Unbound's DNS resolver.
