---
page_title: "opnsense_quagga_bgp_peer_group Resource - terraform-provider-opnsense"
subcategory: Quagga
description: |-
  Configure peer groups for BGP.
---

# opnsense_quagga_bgp_peer_group (Resource)

Configure peer groups for BGP.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "opnsense_quagga_bgp_peer_group" "example" {
  name      = "PEER_GROUP_EXAMPLE"
  remote_as = "65100"
  family    = "ipv4"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name of the peer group.

### Optional

- `default_originate` (Boolean) Enable sending the default route to this peer group. Defaults to `false`.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable this peer group. Defaults to `true`.
- `family` (String) The address family for this peer group. Defaults to `"ipv4"`.
- `listen_ranges` (Set of String) The listen ranges for this peer group.
- `next_hop_self` (Boolean) Enable next-hop-self for this peer group. Defaults to `false`.
- `prefix_list_in` (String) The prefix list UUID for inbound direction. Defaults to `""`.
- `prefix_list_out` (String) The prefix list UUID for outbound direction. Defaults to `""`.
- `remote_as` (String) The remote AS number for this peer group. Defaults to `""`.
- `remote_as_mode` (String) The remote AS mode for this peer group. Defaults to `""`.
- `route_map_in` (String) The route map UUID for inbound direction. Defaults to `""`.
- `route_map_out` (String) The route map UUID for outbound direction. Defaults to `""`.
- `update_source` (String) The update source interface for this peer group. Defaults to `""`.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) UUID of the peer group.

## Import

In Terraform v1.5.0 and later, use an [`import` block](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/import) to import opnsense_quagga_bgp_peer_group using the `id`. For example:

```terraform
import {
  to = opnsense_quagga_bgp_peer_group.example
  id = "<opnsense-resource-id>"
}
```

Using `terraform import`, import opnsense_quagga_bgp_peer_group using the `id`. For example:

```console
% terraform import opnsense_quagga_bgp_peer_group.example <opnsense-resource-id>
```
