---
page_title: "opnsense_quagga_ospf_interface Resource - terraform-provider-opnsense"
subcategory: Quagga
description: |-
  Configure OSPF interfaces.
---

# opnsense_quagga_ospf_interface (Resource)

Configure OSPF interfaces.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "opnsense_quagga_ospf_interface" "example" {
  interface_name = "wan"
  area           = "0.0.0.0"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `area` (String) The OSPF area this interface belongs to. Defaults to `""`.
- `auth_key` (String) Authentication key. Defaults to `""`.
- `auth_key_id` (String) Authentication key ID. Defaults to `"1"`.
- `auth_type` (String) Authentication type. One of `""`, `"message-digest"`, `"plain"`. Defaults to `""`.
- `bfd` (Boolean) Enable BFD support for this interface. Defaults to `false`.
- `carp_depend_on` (String) CARP VHID to depend on. Defaults to `""`.
- `cost` (Number) Interface cost. Use `-1` for unset. Defaults to `-1`.
- `cost_demoted` (Number) Interface cost when demoted. Use `-1` for unset. Defaults to `-1`.
- `dead_interval` (Number) Dead interval in seconds. Use `-1` for unset. Defaults to `-1`.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable this OSPF interface. Defaults to `true`.
- `hello_interval` (Number) Hello interval in seconds. Use `-1` for unset. Defaults to `-1`.
- `interface_name` (String) The interface name. Defaults to `""`.
- `network_type` (String) Network type. One of `""`, `"broadcast"`, `"non-broadcast"`, `"point-to-multipoint"`, `"point-to-point"`. Defaults to `""`.
- `p2mp_options` (String) Point-to-multipoint options. One of `""`, `"delay-reflood"`, `"non-broadcast"`. Defaults to `""`.
- `priority` (Number) Interface priority. Use `-1` for unset. Defaults to `-1`.
- `retransmit_interval` (Number) Retransmit interval in seconds. Use `-1` for unset. Defaults to `-1`.
- `transmit_delay` (Number) Transmit delay in seconds. Use `-1` for unset. Defaults to `-1`.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) UUID of the OSPF interface.

## Import

In Terraform v1.5.0 and later, use an [`import` block](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/import) to import opnsense_quagga_ospf_interface using the `id`. For example:

```terraform
import {
  to = opnsense_quagga_ospf_interface.example
  id = "<opnsense-resource-id>"
}
```

Using `terraform import`, import opnsense_quagga_ospf_interface using the `id`. For example:

```console
% terraform import opnsense_quagga_ospf_interface.example <opnsense-resource-id>
```
